*********************
The HoloViz community
*********************

The HoloViz developers pledge to act in ways that contribute to an open,
welcoming, diverse, inclusive, and healthy community. Please read more about
this pledge in our `code of conduct
<https://github.com/holoviz/holoviz/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md>`__.

Some of the development on HoloViz projects is funded, but a lot is done on a
volunteer basis - especially documentation and community engagement. As the
HoloViz community of users and contributors grows, we try to find sustainable
ways of welcoming new members, holding conversations, answering questions, and
addressing issues. This page provides guidelines for different types of
community interaction.

**Usage questions and discussions** happen in the `HoloViz Discourse forum
<https://discourse.holoviz.org>`__. This forum is also a good place to showcase
your HoloViz work and ask for feedback. Usage questions may also be directed to
StackOverflow (using the `#HoloViz
<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/holoviz>`__ tag).

**Bug reports, feature requests, and documentation issues** go in the
appropriate project's GitHub issue tracker. HoloViz projects are hosted under
the HoloViz `GitHub organization <https://github.com/holoviz>`__. For issues
relating to this HoloViz.org website, use the `HoloViz/HoloViz
<https://github.com/holoviz/holoviz/issues>`__ GitHub issue tracker. Please
follow these `guidelines for minimal bug reports
<http://matthewrocklin.com/blog/work/2018/02/28/minimal-bug-reports>`__, when
possible. 

**Social media tagging** is highly encouraged and appreciated when promoting
HoloViz and your work. Please use the #HoloViz tag, as well as the relevant
HoloViz project tags (e.g. #Panel or #hvPlot). Additionally, you can follow us
on Twitter at the following accounts: `@HoloViz_org
<https://twitter.com/HoloViz_org>`__, `@HoloViews
<https://twitter.com/HoloViews>`__, `@Datashader
<https://twitter.com/datashader>`__, and `@Panel_org
<https://twitter.com/Panel_org>`__.

**Real-time chat** for *contributors* occurs on our `Gitter channel
<https://gitter.im/pyviz/pyviz>`__. This platform is good for quick and simple
questions or comments, but Gitter is not archived or easily searchable so the
`HoloViz Discourse forum <https://discourse.holoviz.org>`__ is a better place
for discussions.

**Developer meetings** are shown in the calendar widget below.

- General HoloViz meeting: This occurs biweekly and is the best
  option for new members to join.
- Issue Triaging meeting: This occurs weekly. It starts with some
  quick coordination and then splits off to triage project issues, so please
  join at the beginning.
- Docs meeting: This occurs biweekly and is focused on anything
  related to the documentation. 

Meeting notes are available on `hackmd.io/@holoviz/minutes
<https://hackmd.io/@holoviz/minutes>`__

.. raw:: html

   <iframe
   src="https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?height=400&wkst=1&bgcolor=%23ffffff&ctz=Etc%2FGMT&showTitle=0&src=aG9sb3Zpei5jYWxlbmRhckBnbWFpbC5jb20&color=%23039BE5"
   style="border-width:0" width="600" height="400" frameborder="0"
   scrolling="no"></iframe>

You can subscribe to this calendar to be notified of changes:

- `Google Calendar
  <https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=holoviz.calendar%40gmail.com&ctz=Europe%2FBerlin>`__
- `iCal
  <https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/holoviz.calendar%40gmail.com/public/basic.ics>`__

**Have you gotten your question answered?** If your problem was resolved, please
ensure that the problem and solution are publicly documented so that the
community can benefit.